Security
Shared Responsibility Model.
User permissions and access.
1. AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM): Gives you the flexibility to configure access based on your company’s specific operational and security needs.
— IAM users, groups, and roles.
— IAM policies.
— Multi-factor authentication.
2. Root user: when you create an AWS account, you begin with an identity known as the root user, it has access to all the AWS services and resources in the account.
3. IAM users: is an identity that you create in AWS, it represents the person or application that interacts with AWS services and resources. It consists of a name and credentials.
**By default when you create a new IAM user, it has no permissions associated with it.
4. IAM policies: is a document that allows or denies permissions to AWS services and resources.
5. IAM group: is a collection of IAM users. When you assign an IAM policy to a group, all users in the group are granted permissions specified by the policy.
6. IAM roles: is an identity that you can assume to gain temporary access to permissions.
**Before an IAM user, application, or service can assume an IAM role, they must be granted permissions to switch to the role.
AWS Organizations
— You can use it to consolidate multiple AWS accounts and manage within a central location.
— You can centrally control permissions for the accounts in your organization by using service control policies (SCPs).
— Organizations Units (OUs): You can group accounts into organization units to make it easier to manage accounts with similar business or security requirements.
Note 1: You can apply service control policies (SCPs) to the organization root, an individual member account, or an OU. An SCP affects all IAM users, groups, and roles within an account, including the root user.

Note 2: You can apply IAM policies to IAM users, groups, or roles. You cannot apply an IAM policy to the AWS account root user.

Compliance
a) AWS Artifacts: Provides on-demand access to AWS security and compliance reports and select online agreements.
— AWS Artifacts Agreement: you can review, accept, and manage agreements for an individual account and for all your accounts in AWS Organizations.
— AWS Artifacts Reports: provide compliance reports from third-party auditors.
b) Customer Compliance Center
— Contains resources to help you learn more about AWS compliance.
Denial-of-service attacks Deliberate attempts to make a website or application unavailable to users.
a) AWS Shield: a service that protects applications against DDoS attacks.
— Standard: automatically protects all AWS customers at no cost, protects your AWS resources from the most common, frequently occurring types of DDoS attacks.
— Advanced: a paid service that provides detailed attacks diagnostics and the ability to detect and mitigate sophisticated DDoS attacks.
Additional Security Services
AWS Key Management Service (KMS)
— Enables you to perform encryption operations through the use of cryptographic keys.
— You can use KMS to create, manage and use cryptographic keys.
— You can also control the use of keys across a wide range of services and in your applications.
AWS WAF
— A web application firewall that lets you monitor network requests that come into your web applications.
Amazon Inspector
— Helps to improve security and compliance of applications by running automated security assessments.
— It checks applications for security vulnerabilities and deviations from security best practices.
— Provides you with a list of security findings prioritized by severity level, including a detailed description of each security issue and a recommendation for how to fix it.
Amazon Guard Duty
— A service that provides intelligent threat detection for your AWS infrastructure and resources. Identifies threats by continuously monitoring the network activity and account behaviour within your AWS environment.
Note 1: Identity federation allows your users to use one login (corporate & AWS).