Instance Stores and Amazon Elastic Block Storage (EBS)
An instance store provides temporary block-level storage for an EC2 instance. Is disk storage that is physically attached to the host computer with the following characteristics:
— HDD options
— Solid-state
— Size up to 16 TiB
2. Amazon Elastic Block Storage (EBS): provides block-level storage volumes that you can use with EC2 instances. Because EBS volumes are for data that needs to persist, it’s important to back up the data (snapshots).

**EBS snapshot is an incremental backup

3. Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3)

When you modify a file in block storage, only the pieces that are changed are updated. When a file in object storage is modified, the entire object is updated

Nine 9’s of durability

S3 provides object-level storage, offers unlimited storage space, the maximum file size for an object is 5TB.

* You can set permissions to control visibility and access to it.
* You can also use the versioning feature to track changes to your objects over time.
* With S3 you only pay for what you use, you can choose from a range of storage classes to select a fit, you will consider two factors: How often you plan to retrieve your data and How available you need your data to be.

* S3 storage classes:
a) S3 standard: provides high availability for objects, it has a higher cost
— Designed for frequently accessed data.
— Store data in a minimum of three Availability Zones.

b) S3 Zone-Infrequent Access (Zone-IA): ideal for infrequently accessed but requires high availability when needed. The same level of availability as the S3 standard but with a lower storage price.
— Ideal for infrequently accessed data.
— Similar to the S3 standard but lower storage price and higher retrieval price.

c) S3 One Zone-Infrequent Access (One Zone-IA)
— Store data in a single availability zone.
— Lower storage price than S3 Standard-IA.

d) S3 Intelligent-Tiering:
— Ideal for data with unknown or changing access patterns.
— Requires a small monthly monitoring and automation fee per object.

e) S3 Glacier:
— Low-cost storage designed for data archiving.
— Able to retrieve objects within a few minutes to hours.

f) S3 Glacier Deep Archive:
— Lowest-cost object storage class, ideal for archiving.
— Able to retrieve objects within 12 hours.

4. Amazon Elastic File System (EFS)

File Storage, multiple clients can access data that is stored in shared file folders. In this approach, a storage server uses block storage with a local file system to organize files. Compared to block storage and object storage, file storage is ideal for use cases in which a large number of services and resources need to access the same data at the same time.
Amazon EFS is a scalable file system used with AWS Cloud Services and On-premise resources.
5. Amazon Relational Database Service (RDS)

RDS enables you to run relational databases in the AWS Cloud Managed services that automate tasks such as:
a) Hardware provisioning
b) Database setup
c) Patching
d) Backups
Database Engines:
a) PostgreSQL
b) MySQL
c) Maria DB
d) Oracle
e) Microsoft SQL Server
f) Amazon Aurora:
— Compatible with MySQL and PostgreSQL.
— Five times faster than MySQL and three times faster than PostgreSQL.
— Reduce unnecessary I/O operations.
— Replicates six copies of your data across three availability zones.
— Continuously backs up your data.
6. Amazon DynamoDB

Non Relational databases: One type of structural approach for non-relational databases is key-value pairs. With key-value pairs, data is organized into items (keys), and items have attributes (values). You can add or remove attributes from items in the table at any time. Not every item has to have the same attributes.
DynamoDB is a key-value database. It delivers single-digit millisecond performance at any scale.
a) Is serverless, which means that you do not have to provision, patch or manage servers.
b) You also do not have to install, maintain or operate the software.
c) Automatically scales and maintain performance.
d) Suitable choice for use cases that require high performance while scaling.
7. Amazon Redshift

Data Warehousing that you can use for big data analytics. It offers the ability to collect data from many sources and helps you to understand relationships, and trends across your data.
8. AWS Database Migration Service

Enables you to migrate relational databases, non-relational databases, and other types of data store.
a) The source and target database can be of the same type or different types.
b) During the migration, your source database remains operational.
c) Other uses cases:
— Development and test database migration.
— Database consolidation.
— Continuous replication.
9. Additional database services

Amazon DocumentDB: a document database that supports MongoDB workloads.
Amazon Neptune: a graph database service. You can use it to build and run applications that work with highly connected datasets, such as recommendations engines, fraud detection, and knowledge graphs.
Amazon Quantum Ledger Database (QLDB): you can use it to review a complete history of all the changes that have been made to your application data.
Amazon Managed Blockchain: you can use it to create and manage blockchain networks with open-source frameworks.
Amazon Elasticache: add caching layers on top of your databases to help improve the read times of common requests. Supports Redis and Memcached.
Amazon DynamoDB Accelerator (DAX): is an in-memory cache for DynamoDB, it helps to improve response times from single-digit milliseconds to microseconds.